# PCL-Study

This repository contains general PCL sample codes. I use them for studying the library itself and for my applications as well.

The repository includes the  following programs/libraries :

- visualuze: a simple CLI command to open a .pcd or .txt file and quickly visualize. It also colorizes according to my own color map along Z axis. I will add multiple clouds argument support later.

- extconverter: converts a .pcd point cloud to .txt point cloud and vice versa.

- filters: simply calls SOR,VOXELGRID and GRID MINIMUM filters on the input point clouds, with parameters given by the command line.

- subsample: Applies Voxel Grid subsampling with resolution parametrized by the command line argument.

- volume (WORK IN PROGRESS): computes the 2.5D (based on the cloudcompare software)/alpha shapes and convex hull volumes. Still need to implement matrix interpolation for the 2.5 Volume.

- plane: Some plane related PCL and VTK methods to plot planes. 

- geocrop: A specific application I've developed. Given a geographic LLA origin(specified by a .json file or by the .crop file), it assumes that the input point cloud was generated by UTM coordinate transformation over the points with respect to the given origin. Then, it CROPS the point clouds within the convex shape given by the coordinates of a .crop. Quite useful for airborne laser scanning.

- normal:  Estimates normals and saves a file with the normals.. still working on it.

- PCUtils: Simple helper class to aid me in some applications. Compiled as a library.
